In this lesson, we're going to talk about
the Boolean data type.
This will be a very short lesson because
we really can't talk
much about the Boolean without talking
about the relational and logical
operators.
And I wanna save that for the lessons when
we start talking about if statements and
decision making.
So here I'm just gonna introduce you to
the standard Boolean types, show you how
they're
generated then we'll talk much more about
how
to generate Boolean data in a later
chapter.
So we'll open the interactive shell, and
of
course the Boolean data types are true and
false.
Internally, true is represented as a one,
the
integer one, and false is represented as a
zero.
So for example, if I write an expression
like this, which may or may not make sense
to you, bool equals 2 is equal to 2, or
more precisely, the result
of comparing 2 equal to 2, is assigned to
bool, will result in a value true
being displayed, but internally it's
really a 1
and then there's some display logic that
displays
the true instead of the 1.
So we can turn around and say, and then
display bool and you
see that now bool is false because 2 is
not equal to 3.
So there's really not much else to say at
this point about the Boolean
data type other than that there is a true
value and a false value.
It's generated when we make comparisons
using relational operators, and logical
operators also.
We're gonna talk more about those in a
later chapter.
Internally, true is stored as a one, the
integer
one, and false is stored as the integer
zero.
I demonstrated how to generate a billion
value.
You can also do them of course directly on
expression.
We saw that earlier.
Just like so.
So that's really all we're going to say
about Boolean
data type right now, and as I've mentioned
several times already,
we'll be talking a lot more about Boolean
data when
we get to the chapter on decision making
and if statements.
So we're gonna wrap up this short lesson
now, move on to the next lesson, where
we're
going to go from data types to data
structures,
and start by talking about the list data
structure.